added more info on types etc to contributing doc (#10)
qiime2/.github: CONTRIBUTING.md

## Building your own plugins and interfaces

> You don't need approval from existing QIIME 2 developers or maintainers to create and distrubute your own tools, such as plugins, that build on QIIME 2. This is the beauty of the plugin-based architecture of QIIME 2, that development of tools for introducing novel functionality can be distributed, and individual QIIME installations can be customized by users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't need approval from existing QIIME 2 developers or maintainers to create and distribute your own tools, such as plugins, that build on QIIME 2.
This is the beauty of the plugin-based architecture of QIIME 2: development of tools for introducing novel functionality can be distributed by anyone, removing the lead development team as a bottleneck or gatekeeper between developers of new functionality and users interested in that functionality, and customized QIIME 2 distributions can be created and shared by users.
```

Made a couple of edits here, and modified to have one sentence per line (which makes text documents more management with respect to pull request reviews -- in markdown the first newline character is ignored, two are needed for a paragraph break).

We encourage you to build your own tools if you would like to introduce new functionality into the QIIME 2 ecosystem, or alter the functionality of existing plugins or interfaces.
[Developing with QIIME 2](https://cap-lab.bio/developing-with-qiime2/) is the primary resource for learning how to build and share your QIIME 2-based tools, and we are happy to support developers in the [Developer Discussion on the QIIME 2 Forum](https://forum.qiime2.org/c/dev-discussion).

You can build your QIIME 2 tools in your own way - your new tool doesn't need to live in our GitHub organization or be part of one of the QIIME 2 distributions developed and maintained in the [Caporaso Lab](https://cap-lab.bio).
You can use the [Community Contributions topic on the QIIME 2 Forum](https://forum.qiime2.org/c/community-contributions/15) to share your plugins with QIIME 2 users.

> You can also have your users request help on the QIIME 2 Forum, but you should monitor the forum to answer user questions about your plugin (e.g., by setting notifications). Please be aware that the forum moderators will not be able to provide support for your plugins and may reach out to you to reply to help requests since they won't necessarily be experts in your tools (and are already tied up providing tech support to the community).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also have your users request help on the QIIME 2 Forum, but if you go this route (as opposed to, for example, directing users to your email, GitHub issue tracker, or another forum for technical support) you should monitor the forum (e.g., via forum notifications) to answer user questions about your plugin. 
Please be aware that the forum moderators will not be able to provide support for your plugins and may reach out to you to reply to help requests since they won't necessarily be experts in your tools (and are already tied up providing tech support to the community).
```

### Guidance on maximizing compatibility between your plugin(s) and existing QIIME 2 distribution(s)

If you want your QIIME 2 plugin(s) to work with existing QIIME 2 distribution(s), your focus should be on maximizing compatibility between your plugin(s) and the relevant QIIME 2 distribution(s).
To do this, you should observe the types and formats that are used in the target distribution(s), and make your functionality compatible with those.

> Avoid defining new types and formats when you can reuse existing ones, to maximize compatibility and interoperability (as well as reducing your own time cost!). A partial list of common semantic types can be found in the [QIIME 2 documentation](https://docs.qiime2.org/), and a complete list of types and formats available in a local installation of QIIME 2 can be accessed with the `qiime tools list-types` and `qiime tools list-formats` commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid defining new types and formats when you can reuse existing ones, to maximize compatibility and interoperability (as well as reducing your own time cost!).
A partial list of common semantic types can be found in the [QIIME 2 documentation](https://docs.qiime2.org/), and a complete list of types and formats available in a local installation of QIIME 2 can be accessed with the `qiime tools list-types` and `qiime tools list-formats` commands.
```

If you do need to create new types and formats, you can add these directly in your own plugin(s).

The Caporaso Lab is not taking on new responsibility for distributing plugins right now (i.e., integrating them in the conda metapackages they develop and maintain; note that "conda metapackage" and "distribution" are essentially synonymous in this context).
You should consider those existing distributions to be foundations that you can build on with your plugin(s), or you can create and distribute your own conda metapackages. Guidance on each of these approaches:
   - Your install instructions can indicate that a user should install whichever distribution you depend on (tiny, amplicon, shotgun, ...) and then illustrate how to install your plugin(s) in that environment however it makes sense (conda, pip, ...).
   - Alternatively, you can compose and share your own distribution of plugins (e.g., building from the tiny distribution) that captures the set of functionality you’d like to share.

>    - Either of these approaches is totally fine. The former is an easier starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Either of these approaches is totally fine.
     The former is an easier starting point.
```
